merge chunks during attach/detach edits (#27386)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/tall-tips-teach.md

---
"@fluidframework/tree": minor
"fluid-framework": minor
"__section": tree
---

> Reduce optimized SharedTree memory use after sequence edits

Reviewer: I don't think this is a great description. The name "sequence" is not used in our user facing API surface, and should prabably say reduced or optimized, but both is confusing unless we refer to ForestTypeOptimized directly, which we are not when we say "optimized SharedTree"

```suggestion
Optimize memory use of arrays when using ForestTypeOptimized
```

Author: Updated with suggestion

`ForestTypeOptimized` now coalesces adjacent uniformly shaped chunks after sequence insertions and removals.

> For sequences of small, uniformly shaped subtrees, such as plain text, this reduces fragmentation and can reduce memory use by approximately 60%.

Reviewer: "Chunks" "shapes" and "sequences" are not user facing concepts. Also link relevant APIs. Linking relevant APIs can also help ensure you document this in terms of user facing concepts.

```suggestion
[`ForestTypeOptimized`](https://fluidframework.com/docs/api/fluid-framework#foresttypeoptimized-variable) now more efficiently deduplicates structural information for adjacent children in [array nodes](https://fluidframework.com/docs/api/tree/treearraynode-interface) after edits.
For arrays of small, uniformly shaped subtrees, such as [`PlainText`](https://fluidframework.com/docs/api/fluid-framework/plaintext-namespace), this reduces fragmentation and can reduce memory use by approximately 60%.
```

Author: Updated with suggestion
